content/post/third-post.md, before:

---
title: "Intro to Lean"
date: 2017-08-15T00:12:45-04:00
tags: ["Lean"]
categories: ["Articles"]
---

Lean is IT. Lean really started it all, not only it revolutionized the Toyota manufacturing process and made it the standard, but provided the scientific underpinning for the Agile methodologies -- saving us from decades of Waterfall process -- and the DevOps transformation of the last few years. I have participated in both Agile and DevOps transformations as a change agent, but 2017 is the year of Lean for enterprise IS management.

Lean is about a relentless drive to cycle time, the time between the customer request and the feature live in production, about eliminating waste, about continuous improvement as a habit, all of it with the goal of supporting business agility to thrive in today's competitive market.

Good reading on Lean includes "The Goal" by Elijah Goldrat, "The Phoenix Project" by Gene Kim, and "Lean Enterprise" by Jez Humble. Next on my list of books is "Lean Startup".

I highly recommend you to read at least one of these books. If I had to choose one, go for "Lean Enterprise", a well-researched book and named by Forbes as a top-ten books for CIOs.

Hope you enjoy the reading and look for more posts about Lean.. coming soon!

Commit message:

Adding shortcodes for vimeo flow and youtube hugo tutorial

content/post/third-post.md, after:

---
title: "Intro to Lean"
date: 2017-08-15T00:12:45-04:00
tags: ["Lean"]
categories: ["Articles"]
---

## Thoughts on Lean

Lean is IT. Lean really started it all, not only it revolutionized the Toyota manufacturing process and made it the standard, but provided the scientific underpinning for the Agile methodologies -- saving us from decades of Waterfall process -- and the DevOps transformation of the last few years. I have participated in both Agile and DevOps transformations as a change agent, but 2017 is the year of Lean for enterprise IS management.

Lean is about a relentless drive to reduce cycle time, the time between the customer request and the feature live in production, about eliminating waste, about continuous improvement as a habit, and about achieving flow, delivering a continuous stream of business value, all of it with the goal of supporting business agility to thrive in today's competitive market.

##### Nordstrom video on the value of Lean over Batch process

{{< vimeo 128617767 >}}

Good reading on Lean includes "The Goal" by Elijah Goldrat, "The Phoenix Project" by Gene Kim, and "Lean Enterprise" by Jez Humble. Next on my list of books is "Lean Startup".

I highly recommend you to read at least one of these books. If I had to choose one, go for "Lean Enterprise", a well-researched book and named by Forbes as a top-ten books for CIOs.

Hope you enjoy the reading and look for more posts about Lean.. coming soon!
